---
layout: post
title:      "Why Software Engineering? "
date:       2020-06-07 19:49:09 +0000
permalink:  why_software_engineering
---


Software engineering is a field that I never thought I would find myself in. I've explored a few different career paths over the years but it's been hard to find something that truly brings me joy and fulfillment in multiple areas of my life. After graduating from the University of British Columbia with a BA in Political Science, I really had no idea what I would do with that degree. After a few years working a barista job I decided I would go into teaching. I felt strongly that equity and reform were needed in public education and wanted to be a part of that change. I wanted to guide young people in learning about our world and planning their futures. I had spent some time volunteering in schools and after-school programs and felt confident that my resume had me prepared for teaching. I graduated with a Masters in Teaching from the University of Washington in 2016. The only problem was that, about halfway through the program, I had started to feel doubtful about teaching. By the time I graduated, a part of me hated teaching and another part of me felt that once I had my own classroom and really got into it, I would end up loving it. That was the beginning of a tumultuous few years hopping from job to job: substitute teaching, long-term substitute teaching, working as an instructional assistant in special education classrooms. During that period of time, I entered a program to become certified in English Language Learning, briefly tested my entrepreneurial mindset by lanching a swimwear brand, and began taking science and math classes with the intention of moving into Oceanography and Marine Conservation. I was all over the place and honestly, was beginning to feel embarrassed about my lack of direction and commitment to any one thing. 

Studying math and science was a push for me. I had never considered myself good at either of those things, and that belief was reinforced by my family, who would often say that we were just "not good at that kind of thing". As an adult, I can pinpoint how struggling with focus and attention, as well as a fear of not being good enough, caused me to avoid the subjects in which I couldn't just skate by on little effort. My belief was that I should stick to the things I was "good at": reading, writing, communication. Maybe it was just something about being an adult and feeling more confident, but eventually I've realized that I don't have to stick to the things that I am "naturally good at" if they don't bring me joy. And that just because you have to work hard at something doesn't mean that you can't excel in it.

I decided to try some coding through online classes, just to see what it was all about and if I would possibly be interested. Right away I was amazed by all the things you could do; I loved tackling problems and the constant feedback of checking if something was working or not. I also realized that, surprisingly, I was picking up on things fairly easily. 

The great thing about technology as a career path is that, not only is it ever increasingly important to our day to day lives and the progression of our society as a whole, but it has a role in almost every field. I started to realize that I could take this in any direction I wanted, even Marine Conservation. Eventually, I would love to work on building software to support Ocean Conservation research. I also recognize that this could take me in an entirely new direction that I've never even considered. 

When schools shut down to to the COVID-19 pandemic, I suddenly went from working two jobs and taking classes on the side, to finding myself with a lot of time on my hands. I was working at home, but only a few hours per week. Although this is such a difficult and scary time for many, I don't think I would have taken the plunge to formally pursue software engineering without it. I am confident that I made the right choice and am so excited for what's to come!
